# Covid-19-Data-Analysis

In this project, I will be analyzing the covid 19 2019-2022 data from the Our World in Data website (https://ourworldindata.org/covid-deaths) which comes with two CSV files 1. covid death 2. covid vaccination. I will be utilizing queries from SQL to obtain useful datasets and visualize the data via Tableau software. This project consists of data analysis, data exploration, and data visualization.

Main SQL Document( Data Exploration and Data Analysis):

we try to figure out the following:

  1. Total Death, Death Percentage and Total Cases of Covid in Canada

  2. Affected Population in Canada with the infection rate

  3. Highest infection count and Highest Infection rate in diff countries

  4. Highest Death count for each country 
     - the reason we are mentioning the continent is not null because within the dataset Continent value such as asia, north america etc are also added as location with      null values for continent.
     - We are using the Cast()/Conver() function to change datatype from nvarchar to int for aggregate function to work perfectly.

  5. Highest Death Count in each continent

  6. Covid Cases per day and Death Cases per day Globally & Death Percentage Per Day

  7. Total Case Numbers and Total Death Accross the world

  8. Joining Covid Death and Covid Vaccination Table Together

  9. Accumulated_Vaccination_Count in each country for each day
      - Utilizing Partiion by/ & Order by function to seperate each country in order to get the accumulated vaccination count for each day in each country

  10 CTE Common Table Expression ( Vaccinated_Rate with accumulated rate per day )

  11. Temp Table ( Vaccinated_Rate with accumulated rate per day )

  12. Creating a View for Data Visualization of Vaccinated_Rate Table

Tableau Project (Dataset generated by sql queries):

Tableau Project Link: https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/chapman4586/viz/Covid19Dashboardfrom2019-2022Project/Dashboard1

Each Part Represent different sheet in the tableau project. Firstly I have to copy the dataset to paste it on excel file and import the xlsx file to tableau

  - Part 1 ( Death Percentage with total cases and total deaths)
  
  - Part 2 ( death count for each continent)
  
  - Part 3 ( infected percentage rate for each country's population)
  
  - Part 4 (infected percentage rate for diff country and be able to observe on each day)
